View Configs
##########################

Viewconfs specify exactly what a HiGlass view should show. They contain a list
of the data sources, visualization types, visible region as well as searching
and styling options.

Show a specific genomic location
--------------------------------

Say we want to have a viewconf which was centered on the gene OSR1. Its
location is roughly between positions 19,500,000 and 19,600,000 on chromosome 7
of the hg19 assembly. So what should ``initialXDomain`` be set to in order to
show this gene?

Because ``initialXDomain`` accepts absolute coordinates calculated by
concatenating chromosomes according to a certain order, we need to calculate
what chr2:19,500,000 and chr2:196,000,000 are in absolute coordinates.

To do this we will assume a chromosome ordering consisting of chr1, chr2, ...
This means that we need to take the length of chr1 in hg19, which is
249,250,621 base pairs, and add our positions to that, yielding
positions 268,750,621 and 268,850,621 for the ``initialXDomain``.

The chromosome order commonly used in HiGlass for hg19 can be found in the
`negspy repository
<https://github.com/pkerpedjiev/negspy/blob/master/negspy/data/hg19/chromInfo.txt>`_.

Upload a viewconf to the server
-------------------------------

A local viewconf can be sent to the server by sending a ``POST`` request. Make
sure the actual viewconf is wrapped in the ``viewconf`` section of the posted
json (e.g. `{"viewconf": myViewConfig}`):

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
         -X POST \
         -d '{"viewconf": {"editable": true, "zoomFixed": false, "trackSourceServers": ["/api/v2", "http://higlass.io/api/v1"], "exportViewUrl": "/api/v1/viewconfs/", "views": [{"tracks": {"top": [], "left": [], "center": [], "right": [], "bottom": []}, "initialXDomain": [243883495.14563107, 2956116504.854369], "initialYDomain": [804660194.1747572, 2395339805.825243], "layout": {"w": 12, "h": 12, "x": 0, "y": 0, "i": "EwiSznw8ST2HF3CjHx-tCg", "moved": false, "static": false}, "uid": "EwiSznw8ST2HF3CjHx-tCg"}], "zoomLocks": {"locksByViewUid": {}, "locksDict": {}}, "locationLocks": {"locksByViewUid": {}, "locksDict": {}}, "valueScaleLocks": {"locksByViewUid": {}, "locksDict": {}}}}' http://localhost:8989/api/v1/viewconfs/

Genome Position Search Box
**************************

The genome position search box section a view config is specific to each view.
It is used to search for locations in the view. The full configuration has a
pointer to a chromSizes file and an autocomplete source which will provide
suggestions for gene names. The autocomplete source should point to a
`gene-annotations` file.

UIDs
****

UID stands for unique identifier. Every view and track in the higlass view
config has a UID. If it's not specified in the viewconfig it's randomly
generated by the client when the view is created.

initialXDomain and initialYDomain
*********************************

The fields contain the initial coordinates which are displayed when HiGlass
first loads the viewconfig. If the ``initialYDomain`` is not present, it is set
to equal the ``initialXDomain``. If that isn't present either, both are
assigned values of ``[0,1]]``.

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        views: [
            {
                  "uid": "AhI0wMP6ScybnFp6BmLuPQ",
                  "initialXDomain": [
                    973907089.1176914,
                    1196247735.9596405
                  ],
                  "initialYDomain": [
                    -12281154450.083118,
                    -12145323104.213125
                  ],
                "genomePositionSearchBox": {
                    "autocompleteServer": "http://higlass.io/api/v1",
                    "autocompleteId": "OHJakQICQD6gTD7skx4EWA",
                    "chromInfoServer": "http://higlass.io/api/v1",
                    "chromInfoId": "hg19",
                    "visible": true
                }
        ]
    }

trackSourceServers
******************

The field `trackSourceServers` at the root level of the viewconf tells higlass
where it can find tracks to load. If you have a local instance running, then
`http://localhost/api/v1` should be included. Our public instance at
`http://higlass.io` also provides access to a number of public datasets.

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
      "trackSourceServers": [
        "http://higlass.io/api/v1",
        "http://localhost:8989/api/v1"
      ],
    }

exportViewUrl
*************

The ``exportViewUrl`` field in the viewconf specifies which server should be used
to store exported viewconfs. This server stores exported viewconfs in its 
database, assigns them a uid, and makes them accessible through its API at
``/api/v1/viewconfs/uid/``. 

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
        "exportViewUrl": "/api/v1/viewconfs",
    }

Tracks
******

Tracks can be placed into four distinct areas: top, bottom, left, right or
center. The location of the track determines what type of data can be shown in
it. Center tracks are used to show data that can be zoomed along two axes.
Horizontal (top, bottom) and vertical (left, right) are used to show data that
can be zoomed along a single axis.

Each set of tracks is placed within a view.

.. code-block:: javascript

    {
      "views": [
        {
          "tracks": {
            "top": [],
            "left": [],
            "center": [],
            "bottom": [],
            "right": []
          },
        }
      ],
    }

Track options
=============

Each track can specify a set of options defining how it will be drawn.
Some of the more important ones are:

-  ``valueScaleMin`` and ``valueScaleMax``: control the minimum and maximum values rendered by the track. If either is not defined, then it will be set according to the visible data (i.e. the minimum value of the scale will be the minimum value in the visible data and the same for the maximum)
